Tom 2.8 announcement
--------------------

It is our great privilege and pleasure to announce the availability of
Tom version 2.8.

This release continues our work on the integration of pattern matching
and rule based programming facilities into Java and C.

Tom is a pattern matching compiler developed at LORIA-INPL and Inria. 
It is particularly well-suited for programming various transformations
on trees/terms and XML based documents. Its design follows our research
on the semantics and the efficient compilation of rule based languages.

Many applications have been developed in Tom, both in academia and
industry. Among them, let us mention:
  - the Tom compiler itself
  - languages semantics, interpreters and program transformation tools
  - a generator of canonical abstract syntax trees (Gom)
  - a proof assistant for supernatural deduction
  - a compiler algorithm for anti-pattern matching and disunification
  - model transformations using EMF

Tom is a complex compiler which adds powerful constructs to Java and C:
rewrite rules, strategies, non linear syntactic matching, associative
matching with neutral element (a.k.a. list-matching), XML based pattern
matching, string matching, and equational rewriting.
This offers the possibility to analyze and transform any kind of
data-structure. Tom can be used for large scale developments and
applications. It comes with a detailed documentation, as well as with
programming and debugging support.

This new release contains many improvements and new features:

  - the internal organization of the compiler has been improved, leading
    to a safer and more efficient code.

  - the compiler integrates new algorithms to support for AC
    (Associative-Commutative) matching. The development is not yet
    finished but this new feature can be used of experiments

  - the compiler integrates a new type-inference engine that will allow 
    us to support soon subtypes

  - the system integrates a new tool to connect Tom with EMF (Eclipse 
    Modelling Framework). Combined with subtyping, transformations will
    be easier to describe.

Tom is available, in open source (GPL/BSD License), from the web page:

  http://tom.loria.fr/

  Best regards,
  Tom's development team

